hello everyone it's dolena and a Bex
another video last week I posted a video
when I shared that I've been diagnosed
as clinically depressed a few months ago
and that is the reason why I went
imaging from Cambridge and after I
posted that video I got so many messages
from people who taught me about their
struggles and I had a lot of messages
from people told me that they're feeling
the same things but they just haven't
told anyone and I had a hard time
replying to these messages because on
the one hand it's great if you were
resonating with the video and that you
see that okay this might be an issue but
then the thing is the next step is
telling someone and so it can be really
really scary to then go to your friends
I think everything is going so well and
tell them it's actually not but if you
are a friend like that and it happens to
you that your friend comes to you it's
like hey can I talk to you about
something cause I'm actually not okay
then this video is for you and this
video is just a list of things that I
wish I had told my friends when I talk
to them about my mental illness and you
know there's a things dad as a depressed
person you're probably never gonna
actually tell them because you just get
scared a lot but those are the things
that you're depressed friend probably
wants you to know and they matter a lot
so yeah this is going to be a short
video and it's just gonna be you know a
few things that I wish I said to them so
I'm just gonna pretend that I'm your
friend because we're all friends on this
channel so it's fine and yeah
let's get into it first things first I
love you even if I don't show it
depression sometimes just gets in a way
and then I don't know what to do and I
honestly just can't go out because I
just don't feel like going out it's a
good thing for me and being around
people is like the worst thing ever but
that doesn't mean that I don't love to
people who love me as well um I just
don't know how to show it right now but
I love you and I hope you're gonna be
there when I'm out of this and you know
you're not gonna hate me for all of this
it's definitely okay if you call me out
for me stupid I'm fine answers to the
question how are you doing because I'm
probably not fine and you know I need
that I need to be called out on it and I
need to be reminded that I can be honest
with you and if you ask again are you
really that matters because it shows you
actually care so please don't be scared
if you poke a little bit
it's absolutely fine and then all
honesty I'm grateful for it because I
need that and I need to remind myself
that there are people who want honest
answers and who don't need me to put on
a smile every time even if I actually
feel like crying yes you can ask about
my therapist but if you end up hearing
one-word answers or I tell you that it's
private then that means that it's
private whatever happens in therapy is
confidential and there's a very good
reason for that if I'm ready to share
something with you great and I'd be
happy to do that but if there are things
that I just don't want to share I'm just
not ready to do that yet then please
accept that because therapy is something
super super personal and a lot of things
that you know you don't really want out
a new friend come out in therapy um and
so going to therapy can be a very very
painful process and so sometimes I am
ready to share some things but sometimes
I just really want to keep it to myself
and you know just deal with it please
don't stop inviting me to events I may
be that friend who never comes along who
just cancels the last minute but the
thing is knowing that someone wanted to
spend their time with me that matters
and it gives my depression less power
over me because my depression tries to
tell me that you don't care about me and
that you don't love me and then I'm just
a burden in your life and having you
text me and being like hey would you
like to come along or it's okay that
you're canceling but I just want you to
know we would have loved to have you and
you know maybe next time we really want
to see you that makes such a huge
difference and it just increases your
mood so much even if I don't actually go
to see you but the thing is if you keep
inviting me and you don't stop at some
point I will be there again and I just
really hope that you're not gonna stop
inviting me even if I don't show up
please don't stop sharing your circles
yes I may be depressed but it doesn't
mean that I can't be here for you and if
you trust me with your issues that means
a lot to me because it shows me that you
trust me that you care about me and that
our friendship is real and so yeah
please don't be scared of sharing
anything I am NOT made of glass and yes
I may be depressed but that doesn't mean
that I can't listen to you and that I
can't you know help you get through
things because that's what friends do
and you are allowed to lean on me
even if I'm a little bit fragile at the
moment it's okay if you don't know what
to say sometimes I don't know either and
that's fine
you know you're just sitting there with
me even if it's in silence that already
means a lot it shows me that my friends
aren't withdrawing from me even when I
share something or even when I'm just
you know not feeling very well and that
matters and you know it shows my
depression that it can go and leave
because my friends are here so that was
just really really great and if you're
looking for something to say I'm here
for you it's always a good thing to say
and you have no idea how much it helped
last day please don't be afraid of
saying if you can't handle something at
the moment you know if you're dealing
with your own struggles at the moment
and you just don't have the headspace do
you know listen to it all because it's
just too much for you at this moment
just say it there's nothing wrong with
putting your mental health first and
it's really really important to do that
and it's absolutely fine to do it you're
saying I can't do office right now I am
very very sorry doesn't mean I don't
care about you it's simply me and said
you also care about yourself and you
really should and if you ever find
yourself in a situation where you know
your friend sharing some things of you
and it's just affecting you too much
then please just say that say hey I love
you I care about you and I'm really
really sorry but right now I just don't
have the headspace for him but he are a
few numbers that you can call and they
will listen and they are trained for
this and I think they can get your help
and if you guys don't know what numbers
to give to your friends at that point in
time I have a few contacts listed in the
info box below they are all free of
charge anybody can call and you can just
call and start talking to them and you
know sometimes that's all you need and
it's absolutely fine if you can't be the
person to listen at that point in time
please don't be afraid of that okay it
won't be held against you it simply
means a human and that you have your own
struggles to get through so yeah there
were sort of things that I wish I had
told my friends and I feel like they
kind of knew dad because my friends are
really really amazing people um thank
you guys so much for being in my life
and so yeah I feel like it
need to be said but you know if you are
in a friendship and you just don't know
you know how your depressed friend is
feeling the peaks I just mentioned are
probably things that are going for it
ahead quite frequently so you know if
you are thinking about a case of what's
going on in your head
I hope this just helps you a little bit
and those are things as I said that you
know somebody who is depressed would
probably not tell their friends but you
know just because someone's afraid to
say something that doesn't mean it's not
important I hope that you guys found
this video helpful and if you are a
friend and you're concerned about one of
your friends I hope this helps you to
you know start a conversation don't be
scared of it you know even if you don't
know how to help them and if you don't
know what to say
saying I'm here for you and here are a
few numbers you can call to get help
that's already a big step and you know
that helps so don't be too scared of
asking if someone's fine and then poking
again being like are you really because
that makes a difference so yeah I hope
you guys enjoyed this video and found it
helpful thank you guys so much for
watching have a nice day bye